hello everybody in the last week we've
made arrangements with Nigel farage who
is the man who took Great Britain out of
the European Union with brexit and who
now runs a political party in the UK
called reform um the aim of Reform is to
shake the conservatives up let's say and
return the classic liberals and the
moderate right to something
approximating
what would you say an orientation that's
actually based on the fundamental
principles of Western Civilization
itself judeo-christianity at the bottom
the Democracy that emerges out of that
as a consequence of the concept of the
sovereignty and divine import of the
individual the family above that the
community the city the state the nation
under God that entire subsidiary
structure to return to an orientation
that makes that primary and the
foundation of identity
itself Nigel fr's party is making great
Headway in the UK surprising Headway and
also among young people we had the
opportunity today to take 45 minutes
just prior to the upcoming UK election
to discuss well who Mr frage is and just
what the hell he's up to so tune in for
that hello m Mr farage it's good to see
you again hello there thank you yeah so
we've got 45 minutes for you to explain
to everybody just what you think's going
on in Great Britain in the UK in general
and and then also to delve into the
details of the the election that's
coming up right
away thank you well we had really a
massive political event happened eight
years ago last week it was called brexit
uh it happened after a
25-year Grassroots campaign campaign a
campaign for sovereignty a campaign for
borders against a holy globalist
establishment and that included all of
our main political parties uh pretty
much all of our newspapers all of our
trade unions all of our big employers
organizations all of our big Banks uh
all of our state institutions all of
whom thought that membership of the
European Union was the right place for
the United Kingdom to be
and I took a view uh almost exactly 30
years ago when I decided this was wrong
uh that actually the nation state is the
essential building block within people
want to live uh that it's a building
block that they're prepared uh to pay
their taxes to it's the building block
in extremists that they're prepared to
put a military uniform on to defend
because I've always taken the view that
the nation state really is like an
extend ion of your family your community
it's your country so I spent quarter of
a century uh from the tiniest of the
lorn's campaigning Against The
Establishment View and it took a long
time to get any traction but in the end
it was really the question of borders
because we had a total open border uh
with over 400 million people in the
continent of Europe and that was the
issue that really lit the blue touch p
sovereignty on its own even though I
think you know self-government
parliamentary democracy even though I
believe that to be an absolutely
fundamental principle kind of people
said well it doesn't really affect my
life directly but it was when we started
to see uh immigration numbers coming
into Britain on a scale that have never
been comprehended over the last couple
of thousand years uh that really the
population decided to wake up so we have
this extraordinary shock that took place
on June 23rd
2016 brexit and the public voted very
clearly for us to leave our Parliament
didn't like the result um and many of
them spent the next three years trying
to get us to run the referendum that we
managed to avoid that in the end after
years of wrangling and and frankly I
think probably the most shameful period
in the entire history of a British
Parliament in the end on the 31st of
January 2020 we left the European union
now in constitutional terms that was
probably the biggest event uh that has
taken place i' guess for about 300 years
and you would have thought that was that
because the conservative at least that's
the name of the party they're called the
conservative party uh they got a massive
80 seat majority a majority not seen uh
from the conservatives in Britain since
the time of Thatcher and you've got to
go back to the mid 1980s for that and
the hopes and aspirations of those that
voted for them and I I gave them
considerable help uh with that Victory
the thoughts and aspirations were that
with self-government the numbers coming
into Britain would reduce with
self-government illegal immigration
could be effectively dealt with and
another crucial group 5 a half million
uh men and women running small
businesses acting as Soul Traders
believed that the massive regulatory
rule book that have been put on top of
everybody uh uh taking away uh their
time their effort that that could be
reduced so that we could encourage
entrepreneurship we could encourage real
economic growth and so the conservatives
were riding on the crest of a wave and
many said well I mean Boris Johnson will
be prime minister for 15 years years and
what has happened over the last 5 years
in my view is they have betrayed all of
those hopes in absolutely every way uh
elected as conservatives but they've
governed as Metropolitan liberals they
introduced Net Zero policies I mean so
insane was some of it uh that Boris even
suggested that we take out a production
30% of our Farmland um and Rew it uh
when it came to getting rid of
regulations basically nothing was done
in fact arguably arguably for many
sectors uh they now living under more
bureaucratic control now than they were
as members of the European Union and the
big one the big one is legal immigration
and just to give people some context on
this um in the late
1940s it was very much felt that we owed
a huge debt to the British Empire
British Commonwealth uh because in two
world wars
40% of the contribution came from the
Commonwealth Canada of course your home
country being one of the most remarkable
of them and so began um legal
immigration from the West Indies and
elsewhere and it ran all through the
late 40s the 50s the 60s the 70s the 80s
the '90s right up until Tony Blair got
in it ran all through that period with a
net migration level of 30 to 40,000
people a year and we genuinely did not
have in the late 1990s divided
communities Mr Blair opened the doors in
the most remarkable way and during his
time as prime minister our population
increased by nearly 3 million as a
direct result of legal migration and
then the conservatives in 2010 in their
Manifesto in 2015 2017 2019 in four
consecutive manifestos they promised
they would reduce net migration back to
its historic levels of tens of thousands
a year well let's take Richie sunx
Premiership should we in the last two
years a net 1.5 million have come I mean
these are numbers that are just beyond
anyone's imagination our population is
now up by 10 million since Blair came to
power and what that has meant is that
life the quality of life for people on
these islands has diminished has changed
you can't get access to a doctor's
appointment traveling on the roads is I
mean frankly almost impossible housing
do you know we have to build in our
country a new home every two minutes
just to cope with legal migration and
the British public are saying this is
wrong and it's frankly not fair and that
our kids you know can't even aspire to
owning a home in the way that their
parents and grandparents and
great-grandparents did so a feeling of
real disconnect a feeling of real
betrayal uh a conservative party
slumping in the opinion polls a labor
party Rising because kind of in a first
pass the post electoral system that's
what happens and I just decided Jordan
and I you know having spent 25 years of
my life fighting for us to be Sovereign
free and independent
and having been
Victorious I just decided that I just
couldn't I couldn't just stand aside in
what was this snap general election
called when nobody really expected it
and I
knew that I'd only have four months uh
to pick up a party reform UK that was
virtual in many ways I mean no money no
structure no substance uh but I just
decided you know what if we're going to
have self-government let's exercise it
properly let's exercise it in the
interests of our people so I decided a
month ago I would you know plant my flag
in the sand and put myself forward for
the election so that is why I'm here I
think the disconnect that exists between
our political and media class in London
and the rest of the country has never
been bigger and this is for me just the
first step this is a five-year project
we're really aiming at the 20 29 general
election what I intend to do hope to do
after we get over this hurdle on
Thursday is to build a mass movement
across the country for change a populist
mass movement all right so I have a
bunch of questions let's start with the
political situation with regard to the
conservatives so the first question I'll
ask you about three and then let you
answer those what what do you think it
was that alerted you so long ago
to the dangers of the EU and the reason
I'm asking that is
because there was reason for people to
be hopeful about the EU project the fact
that you could travel in Europe without
passports from country to country was
interesting there was a while when there
seemed to be a real sheen on the EU
project and there was of course concerns
after the first and second world wars
that the project of nationalism had
flaws built into it especially on the
European side that were so massive that
some other um form of government might
reasonably be attempted the world is
unifying more too because we communicate
with each other much more now you were
obviously very early in your
apprehension that Distributing power
farther up the hierarchy to a unified
say European government or the UN or the
WF for that matter had serious flaws so
what do you think it was that that made
you alert to that so much before anyone
else really caughted on to it well I'm a
sort of amateur historian I love history
and I do think there are things we can
learn from history sadly we rarely do
but there are things we can learn and
and and and here's the point I mean yes
of course you know in 1870 the Germans
invade France in 1914 the Germans invade
France in 1940 the Germans invade France
France and so this this this this idea
came around that if you unify France and
Germany and of course it began with a
coal and steel packs in 1951 if you
unify France and Germany if you unify
the whole of Europe those nationalistic
factors that caused
War would go away and we could live in
peace and I completely understand why
people would have thought that after two
catastrophic Wars and you know think of
the the bombing the civilian deaths the
Holocaust all the awful things that did
take place but it was based on a
fundamental
misunderstanding and the
misunderstanding was that the existence
of nation states led to war but they
made one fundamental error and it's this
provided the nation state is acting as a
functioning democracy you don't have
that problem there is no example there
is no example in history of functioning
one functioning democracy going to war
with another and far from being a
project of peace I took the opposite
view I took the view in in about 1990
really I took the view that if you take
away from nation states their ability to
determine their own future and hand it
up to a higher authority over which you
have little or no say far from dampening
nationalistic f
it's likely to increase nationalistic
fervor and here's the thing why
democracy Works democracy works because
whether you like the result or not you
settle it with a cross on a piece of
paper you know and not with a gun and so
I actually felt that it was likely to
provoke nationalistic stroke terrorist
groups not to diminish them so I took
that big picture of view a long time ago
and and and what happened was you see we
did have a referendum on this back in
the 70s and my parents were told look
vote to stay part of this because it's
about trading with our neighbors it's
going to be good for business it means
we can travel to Europe freely
ironically PR 1914 we could travel all
over Europe without even having a
passport that's been rather forgotten um
and and and no one thought or very few
people thought back in the 70s that it
would threaten sovereignty that it would
threaten nation state democracy and and
and and as the years went by a project
that started around peace became a
project about power Tony Blair himself
said this is now a project of power and
the ambition of the European Union was
was actually to become the world's
leading superpower miles away from what
we told we were joining now look I you
know I've worked for American companies
in a previous Life I even worked for a
French company for a brief period of
time I get it we're living in an
interconnected world I understand that I
am generally pro- free trade provided
it's fair um you know and I get
international business and travel and
you know I understand all of these
things but the unit by which we want to
live our ability to determine many
things that are very important in our
lives democracy which for goodness sake
is what is what we fought two world wars
for these things really really matter
and to begin with you know my warnings
about this were thought to be hysterical
uh but in the end it did become a
majority View and I think if you look
around Europe now you'll see political
movements that are on the rise who who
really are talking about similar things
Jordan to what I was saying 10 20 20 30
years ago all right so let's turn our
attention to the conservatives so um
there's a couple of things that you
pointed out that have been great
Mysteries to me so for example I'm
absolutely
jaw-droppingly amazed that the
conservatives adopted Net Zero policies
under Boris Johnson it's like what the
hell were they thinking you know my the
most skeptical part of my brain and
suppose the rude part thinks that this
was cooked up by Boris Johnson to
impress his young wife that on the
personal side and that the conservatives
as well as a group lacked a vision so
comprehensively that they had to turn to
this idiot climate apocalypse mongering
that's used by power mad tyrants to cow
the public into delivering them all the
authority and power and so I just can't
wrap my head around the conservative
shift to Net Zero not not only because
it's such a profoundly anti-conservative
movement at least with regards to such
things as entrepreneurial activity and
freedom um and it's it's profoundly
anti- subsidiary so uh it works against
the spirit of distributed responsibility
and the economics of a shift to Net Zero
are so appallingly catastrophic that
it's a miracle that anybody who could
count would even ever consider it so
like what the hell was going on with the
and certainly this is part of the reason
they're being devastated at the moment
what in the world was going on with the
conservatives where were their heads at
well you're right me I think that um I
think that Boris Johnson's knew much
younger wife Carrie or Carrie Antoinette
as she's known I think she perhaps did
play something of a part in this but it
was broader than that it was broader
than that you know David Cameron in 2010
became a conservative prime minister uh
and he and his sidekick George Osborne
the chancellor they saw themselves as
the heir to Blair they were a
essentially globalists they were
essentially career
politicians and they don't like to be
criticized they don't like the Twitter
Ry they don't like the G7 whatever it
may be uh they don't want to stand out
from the crowd they haven't got the
courage of their convictions because do
you know what they haven't actually got
any real convictions and so we've been
priding ourselves that we've cut carbon
emissions more than any other Western
Country we have cut carbon emissions by
44% since 1990 and you know how we've
done it we've de-industrialized we've
de-industrialized our steel plants CL
close down they go to India where the
steel is produced under lower
Environmental Protections and then guess
what the steel goods are shipped back to
the United Kingdom we haven't actually
reduced Global CO2 emissions we've just
exported it to other countries and at
the same time as doing that I mean Boris
said he wanted us to become the Saudi
Arabia of wind so wind turbines to be
built all across our seascapes and some
of our Landscapes but of course none of
it working unless it had subsidy and
guess where the subsid is gone it's gone
onto the electricity bills of ordinary
folk for whom energy is
disproportionately a much higher
percentage of their income so we've
actually
de-industrialized we have transferred
vast amounts of wealth from the poorest
to the richest and even in terms of a
CO2 debate and Emissions frankly
globally we've achieved almost nothing
and I think it's a a combination uh of
wooly thinking but above all
cowardice and this is really my
complaint about the so-called
conservative party they are cowardly uh
they want to be popular amongst the
right circles in the smart dinner party
set in London uh they can't stand the
Pyon that happens on social media and
they're in politics uh and you'd think
they're still you know in a university
debating Society it's all a great big
game it's all about climbing the greasy
pole it's not about conviction let me
ask you about carbon dioxide I want to
ask you a hard question um many of the
conservatives that I talk to now small C
conservatives are beginning to push back
against the climate apocalypse mongers
but they still doing it pretty
apologetically and so you know I've been
looking at the data on carbon dioxide
production for about 15 years trying to
sort it out
and my view as a scientist who's capable
of assessing data is that if we were
taking a dispassionate look at the
situation one that wasn't informed by
the club of Rome overpopulation
doomsayers for example that we would
conclude that by historical standards
over periods of millions of years
instead of thousands we're actually the
planet is actually in a pretty severe
carbon dioxide drought and that the
influx of carbon dioxide from the fossil
fuel industry into the atmosphere is
actually a net ecological good and the
reason I think this is because the 's
one piece of data that leaps out at me
that is so large that it seems to put
everything else in the shadow and that
is that in the last 20 years alone the
planet has greened by an area factor of
20% Which is twice as big as the
continental United States now that's not
all not only has it got Greener and a
lot
Greener the places that got Greener were
primarily semiarid areas in fact exactly
the areas that the climate doomsayers
said would turn into outright desert as
the planet warmed not only were they
were wrong they were wrong in the
opposite direction and then we could add
to the fact that the fact and this is
like straight up NASA data I'm not
making any of this up that crops
themselves the crops we depend on to
like eat have increased their
productivity by something approximating
15% along with this additional Greening
and so I can understand environmental
concern that any rapid transformation of
the ecosystem including the rapid
production of carbon dioxide is
something to be alert to because rapid
change it's difficult for biological
systems to adapt to Rapid change let's
say but I it seems to me that it's time
for people who are not fond of the
climate fearmongers to not be apologetic
about their opposition quite the
contrary now I know this is a rather I
might be regarded as a rather extreme
stance but um I'm curious about what you
do think about the climate crisis per se
and you know already made the case that
Britain's attempts to address it have
done nothing but enrich India and China
and likely increase the amount of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere anyways
because of the lack or environmental
standards in those countries I think
that's true but I'm not sure that that
gets at the issue as deeply as perhaps
it might be addressed so anyways um I'll
put you on the spot with regards to that
well I don't understand the science of
it and I haven't studied that aspect of
it as much as you have I've looked more
at what we're doing in the name of
dealing with the problem um and and my
criticisms of that but I would say this
I do find it
extraordinary that people call carbon
dioxide a
pollutant because as I understand it uh
you know plants don't grow without
carbon dioxide and you're talking about
the Earth being much greener than it was
so I don't understand that I also I've
often asked the question you know what
about sunspot activity surely
historically when it comes to the planet
heating up and cooling down sunspot
activity is a factor uh and yet that
doesn't get talked about and then of
course we've got volcano particularly
underwater volcanoes in the Pacific
Ocean and from what I can understand
it only
3% of carbon dioxide that's in our
atmosphere is produced by man so without
delving deeply into the science I do
have some pretty big questions that I'm
not that I'm not afraid to ask so okay
so let's turn to the labor party if you
don't mind so I'm watching with
apprehension as the UK populace wanders
over the brink going to elect a labor
government in all likelihood um This
concerns me a lot because if the
conservatives have being overrun by
globalist liberals with a progressive
agenda I can't imagine who's lurking in
the background on the labor side well I
can't imagine because I worked in
universities so I actually know exactly
who's lurking in the background and so
um I'm very apprehensive about what a
labor government will do to the UK and
so what do you think a labor government
will do to the UK yeah I mean starma has
no K starma has no leadership qualities
whatsoever uh he is
devoid of any sort of charisma at all
and people do need a leader you know
that inspires them to a certain degree
he's kind of doing well because he's not
the conservatives and there is revulsion
there is there is revulsion at them a
sense of betrayal about them on the face
of it his Manifesto on climate change is
almost identical to the conservatives
his Manifesto on economics is almost
identical to the conservatives but I
think we know uh that what we'll see is
trans ideology in the
ascendancy uh we'll see more legislation
designed to divide us up into different
groups rather than bring us together as
human beings equal before the law I look
at his potential front bench of the top
ministers I see very little competence
whatsoever he's almost going to win by
default as opposed to you know a big
enthusiastic wave of support and so in
some
ways I think there's every
opportunity for this just to be a
one-term labor government there'll be no
honeymoon there'll be no of after
Victory glow uh he faces a big set of
problems you know the ones I mentioned
earlier the population explosion the
fact our Public Services don't work the
fact young people can't get a house and
even their rents take up over half of
their income and he won't have the
solutions to any of it he's campaigning
on a slogan of change but actually it'll
be more of the same just ever so
slightly worse so here's the
opportunity the opportunity is to
reshape the center right of British
politics to be where the silent majority
actually are now I know that the British
conservative party have been around for
190 years but nothing necessarily lasts
forever and what I'm doing with reform
UK is I am taking those stances on all
of those issues use uh that I think give
us the kind of radical change that we
need and you know I and you know I use
the the word radical in an oldfashioned
sense of the word you see I'm a
traditionalist I think that our culture
matters I think that our
history matters think the way that we
teach our kids about who we are as a
people as a nation matters I think
understanding the judeo-christian
principles that underpin frankly all of
our civilization I think that matters
and yet I believe you can be a
traditionalist whilst recognizing that
your institutions need to be brought
into the 21st century um and that that
can be done and one is not inconsistent
with the other so my my goal is to
reshape the sense of right of British
politics into a form uh that actually
stands for the sort of things that you
and I would believe in and becomes
electable and wins in
2029 sometimes in life things have to
get a bit worse before they can get
better so let me go at you with
the
typical leftist radical critiques let's
say of the UK um you know my country
Canada in so far as it's a good country
has principles that are derived from the
UK and they're very functional and I
read a great book at one point called
the wealth and poverty of Nations by a
guy named Landis an uh historian from
Harvard who pointed out that in the
Western Hemisphere if you were a country
in the modern world that was settled by
France Portugal or
Spain you were poor whereas if you were
a country that was settled by Great
Britain with British institutions you
were rich and uh that St struck me and
still does is highly probable and so um
the radical leftists would say Britain
has a dreadful Colonial past that the
capitalist Enterprise marginalizes the
poor and other marginalized groups
obviously that the time for nationalism
is far gone and you have to be something
approximating an oppressive fascist to
think otherwise um there's no Brook
whatsoever given for anything that
smacks of Christian nationalism would
which would be again I suppose to your
insistence that the Nationalist project
has to be embedded within or alongside
the judeo-christian project and so well
those are fundamentally the criticisms
and so you said you're a traditionalist
you have a walloping flag uh sitting
behind you you've obviously been a
staunch advocate of British sovereignty
for for forever and despite remarkable
odds so what case can you make say
particularly to young people for for
that serves as a barrier against the
assault and accusations of the Oho moral
radicals but that also offers people a
like a compelling and Invitational a
compelling invitation moving forward
what does reform have to offer well we
believe in family community and Country
uh we believe they're the three building
blocks that matter to all of us at
whatever age we are and and If you deny
those well you're entitled to deny those
uh but it's rather important that
through the education system people
don't just hear that argument they hear
the positive argument and I think what
progressivism is doing uh it's confusing
young people I mean young men young men
are being told they can't be men we've
got uh we've got England uh through to
the quarterfinals of the European
championships as I speak and they're
being told that if you go to Germany
please don't drink too much beer please
don't chant in the stadiums please don't
sing songs uh that are funny but might
cause offense please don't be young Lads
I that's effectively what we're telling
people through this Progressive agenda
and we're telling women uh now look you
know what's the problem you're in a
changing room you're in a locker room
and there's somebody there uh with male
anatomy but that person calls themselves
a woman so what's your problem and then
when we send a double rapist violent
double rapist to a woman's prison we're
telling women don't complain how dare
you that's transphobic I mean all this
all this stuff does is totally confuse
everyone and and and then you can move
on from that to the diversity and
inclusion agenda which says that
companies corporate companies government
organizations don't employ people on
Talent no no no no no you've got to fill
your quotas according to race ethnicity
sexual preference um and all we're doing
here is we're dividing everybody up
we're putting them in Pigeon
holes and far from bringing us together
uh actually all we're doing is causing
ever greater
Division and actually and it goes back
to your point about
Landis actually uh the kind of society
that we've developed evolved over these
centuries it may not be perfect but you
know something it's a damn site better
than anybody else in the history of
mankind has ever come up with uh and you
know when you see when you see that
nearly 25% % of 18 to 24 year old uh
Islamic men and women born in this
country uh now think Jihad is an
acceptable uh principle you realize that
if we're not careful this progress this
progressivism is going to destroy our
society as we know it lead to chaos and
make us poorer that's the case to put to
young people and you know what's
exciting what's really exciting about
this is all through my years of battling
for sovereignty and borders my
supporters were over 45 over
50 now despite the fact this political
party has only been active for a month
I've Just Seen polling today suggesting
uh that reform and what I stand for is
now the second most popular amongst the
younger generation in this country and
actually I believe that within a short
space of time
our objectives our goals you know our
policies our thoughts our feelings our
principles can become the number one
amongst young people in this country and
I I've pretty much given up with the
Millennials they're gone they're gone I
mean they talk about work life balance
and you know no one wants to get out of
bed in the morning and they think the
state owes them a living I'm seeing
amongst gen Z something very very
different despite what their school
teachers and University lecturers are
telling them I'm seeing great hope among
gen z uh for the kind of principles that
we believe in I'm seeing it in France at
the moment uh where the you know we're
heading up for the second round of these
French elections and even though Marine
leen's economic policies might be deeply
socialist you know culturally she
believes in laf France um and I fully
understand why I see Trump doing
amazingly well with young people in
America and suddenly even even though
I'm sick
um some young people for some reason
think I'm cool so so actually I am
seeing great hope uh thank goodness so I
want to approach this from a
psychological perspective for a moment
with regards to your emphasis on family
community and Country we're neck deep in
identity politics I suppose that's the
core of the so-called culture War and
the progressives in particular suffer
from a pathology of atomized Liber ISM
because and it it's based on a
misapprehension of psychological
understanding they believe that identity
is something that can only be defined by
the individual but even it's even more
atomized than that it's not only is
identity only proclaimed
subjectively no matter what it was but
that very subjectivity is actually
disintegrated into
racial identity ethnic Identity or
sexual let's say sexual identity and so
what that means is that it's a very
small fragment of the subjective that's
defining identity and so then you might
say okay well what truly defines
identity and your emphasis on family
community and country is a much
more psychologically and socially astute
Vision human beings are very very very
very
social we're communal
organisms we live in parabon parab
bonded sexual Arrangements in the
main if we're mature we live in families
that have multigenerational commitments
we live in communities that can scale
upward to the level of a Nation we're
instantiated at every
level married couple family local
community
town State Nation all of those are part
of identity and then the core of
identity is the sacrifice of individual
whim to that broader community and the
future so it's a sacrificial gesture on
the part of the individual to establish
a mature identity that includes other
people in the future that's why there's
so much emphasis on sacrifice in the
judeo Christian tradition
the community is based on sacrifice
that's that's absolutely 100% accurate
and so I've been talking to young people
all around the world and one of the
things that makes the crowds go silent
that the conservatives have at their
fingertips that you've already touched
upon is that the meaning that all these
young people are missing in their life
is going to be found in their
willingness to sacrifice their idiot
individual ual whims for something
that's beyond them for an identity that
stretches Beyond them to their marital
partner to their family to their
Community to their City to their state
to their country under God that whole
upward striving communal and future
oriented identity that's where all the
meaning is because that's the most
fundamental expression of the Instinct
that unites us and it's also where the
adventure is because
it is the case that the more
responsibility you take onto yourself in
that sacrificial manner the more
adventurous and meaningful and deep your
life becomes and conservatives can
explain this to young people it's like
your missing value is to be found in the
voluntary adoption of
responsibility and you know they
understand this because every time I say
those sorts of things to the audiences
that I'm speaking to they go dead silent
no one's pointed this out for 60 years
and so your emphasis and I think the
emphasis on the rising rate around the
world on the necessity for family
community and Country as higher level
integrating structures with regards to
Identity that that gives you security so
that quells anxiety and it gives you
hope because it gives you something to
do and you need something to do to have
hope and to have that positive meaning
in your life it's adventure through
responsibility and conservatives have
that to sell if they're if they're wise
to sell that to young people to offer
that to young people to invite young
people to that well I mean you know one
of the most exciting things in life is
to be part of a team isn't it you work
together with other individuals and if
you achieve a victory a goal together it
feels always feels better somehow as
part of a team than just for yourself
there are some exceptions to that but
generally I think that that is true look
you know I am going to go on fighting i'
fact to be honest I've only just started
properly fighting atomized liberalism I
I want us to completely
abolish the diversity and inclusion laws
completely abolish the equalities act
that was brought in by the labor party
in 2010 and which the conservatives
haven't had the guts to even talk about
because they're cowards and I want us to
to basically
say we don't care we don't care what you
are I was asked the other day what was I
going to do for the black community do
you know what I said
nothing absolutely nothing I couldn't
give a damn whether you're black or
white whether you're G gay or straight I
really don't care you'll be judged by
your character you'll be judged by your
ability you'll be judged by are you a
contributor to society or a take her out
and and right at the moment this is
considered to be dangerous radical
thinking but I think if we can start to
explain why this matters um if we can
start to explain that that's the only
way we're going to have any chance of a
unified society that works together you
know with mutual benefit for each other
I think this is one of the next great
political battles and we're going to
need some quite Brave leaders to take it
on um but I yeah you know I mean I have
to say you know the lunacy we saw with
black lives matter in in in 2020 you
know maybe people have beg to reflect
ever slightly on that we've got to treat
human beings as being equal before the
law judge them on their values judge
them on their character judge them on
their merits not by their skin color or
sexual preference yeah well a ringing
endorsements of the Civil Rights
Movement from like 1963 you know you'd
think we would have figured that out so
maybe to close sir if you don't mind why
don't you just tell people well where
are what do you expect from the election
where are where are you sitting now and
where is your party sitting and also are
are why are you not concerned or how are
you concerned about the fact that you
know you're splitting the vote on the in
the center and on the right let's say
and of course by doing so in some ways
playing into the hands of the idiot
progressives that are going to end up
running your country so let let's let's
deal with both of those what's the risk
in what you're doing with regards to the
union of the conservatives and then also
what do you think what do you think's
going to happen to your party in
particular in this upcoming
election Well Point number one is the
conservatives don't need my help to
destroy their election chances they've
done it to themselves uh they were going
to lose anyway and it's very interesting
a large number of people who say they'll
vote for me if I wasn't here wouldn't
bother to vote at all that's how
disenchanted they are with the whole
thing as I said earlier you know a labor
government is going to happen the
conservatives deserve to lose labor
don't deserve to win but they're going
to win I what I'm doing here is putting
a first big marker down albe it just in
the space of a few weeks we are going to
get millions of votes we are going to
get our first people elected into that
Parliament and and and I might remind
people just as happened to a party
called reform in Canada some years ago
everyone said oh no reform reform will
split the vote Preston Manning's a
right-wing nut job you know all the same
kind of criticisms and in the end reform
won and as you know Steven Harper proved
to be a very good prime minister in many
ways of Canada having first been elected
as a reform MP and then effectively
doing a reverse takeover of the very
tired and increasingly Progressive
conservative party I am trying to do
something very similar to what reform
did in Canada all those year 30 years
ago um and to be honest with you it's
one of the reasons I chose the name
reform UK seeing inspiration from what
happened when Common Sense got back into
Canadian politics sadly now long
disappeared under true
so we're going to get well you know I
mean I you know we're going to get
millions of votes we're going to get
we're going to win those seats but I'm
going to do this
differently this is not going to be just
about what we can do in Parliament we
are going to build this is my ambition
we're going to build a mass movement for
common sense and we're going to build it
not just because we object to what the
progressiv have done to us but because
we believe in family community and
Country and I think the more people
particularly young people hear those
arguments the more successful will be
over the coming years well sir that's an
excellent place to stop and we've uh
timed it within the minute so that that
always Brooks well for paying careful
attention um Good Luck later this week
um we'll want to have a conversation at
some point in the future about this
Alliance for responsible citizenship
that's trying to do on the international
side pretty much what you guys are
trying to do on the national side and so
I do think there's a
real opportunity here for the right and
the classic liberals to come together to
produce an Invitational vision of the
future that can lift young people and
the countries they're part of out of
this idiot apocalypse mongering malaise
that seems to be mandatory from the
moral perspective as far as the
anti-human radicals who hate Western Civ
ization are concerned so good luck later
this week we're watching with baited
breath in Canada and everywhere else
yeah very good to talk to you thank you
Jordan